## Notes

### Bootstrapping a new project (without react-app)

1. In the root directory of the project, run the command `npm init`. It asks a bunch of questions. To skip all of them just append the parameter `-y`. It will create the `package.json` file meant to store the dependencies, scripts, etc.
2. Add and configure prettier extension to enable auto-formatting to keep code standardised (spaces or tabs? semi-colons? Indentation etc). (1) `npm install -D prettier` (2) create a new file at the root of the file called `.prettierrc`. (3) add configuration to define things like double quotes or single quotes, 2 or 4 spaces, tabs or spaces, etc. - an empty object ({}) means use the defaults. (4) create a shortcut script within `package.json` to ease execution (e.g `"format": "prettier --write \"src/**/*.{js,jsx}\""`). (5) to execute run the command `npm run format` (or to execute without the npm script: `npx prettier --write "src/**/*.{js,jsx}"`)
3. Install prettier VSCode extension (Prettier - Code formatter by esbenp.prettier-vscode). Enable the configurations (command comma) (1) turn on `Editor: Format On Save` (2) turn on `Prettier: Require Config`
4. Add and configure ESLint to enforce code styles (e.g enforce single quotes, do not allow arrow function, etc). ESLint does not format the code but enforces that it is formatted according to the defined pattern. (1) `npm install -D eslint eslint-config-prettier` (2) Create the config file `.eslintrc.json` and add the basic configs (3) create a shortcut script (`"lint": "eslint \"src/**/*.{js,jsx}\" --quiet"`) in the `package.json` file to ease execution (4) to run execute the command `npm run lint`. Tip: when ESLint is complaining about a global variable that it does not recognize, just add at the top of the file a comment with the global variable name. E.g `/* global React */`
5. Install ESLint extension for VSCode (ESLint by Dirk Baeumer).
